Help Guide: Command-Line Tool for Network Utilities

This tool is a versatile command-line utility that provides essential functions for network analysis and password management.
 It includes the following features:

    1. Packet Sniffer: Capture and analyze network packets.
    2. Port Scanner: Scan a target machine for open ports.
    3. SHA1 Cracker: Attempt to crack SHA1 hashes using a dictionary attack.
    4. Password Generator: Generate strong, random passwords.

Menu Options

The tool is designed with a menu-based interface, allowing users to navigate between different functionalities easily.
 Below is a brief description of each menu option and how to use it.

1 - Port Scanner: Start the port scanner to identify open ports on a specified target.

2 - Packet Sniffer: Launch the packet sniffer to monitor and capture packets on the network.

3 - SHA1 Password Cracker: Input a SHA1 hash and attempt to crack it using a dictionary attack.

4 - Password Generator: Generate a random password with customizable parameters (length, complexity).

5 - Help: Access this help guide for detailed information about each function.

6 - Exit: Exit the tool.

Features:

1. Port Scanner

The Port Scanner allows you to scan a specific IP address for open ports.

Usage:
    Select option 1 from the main menu.
    Enter the target IP address.
    Provide a port range (e.g., 1-1024). If left empty, it will default to scanning the most common ports.
    The tool will display a list of open ports.

Example:
Enter target IP: 192.168.1.1
Enter port range (default: 1-1024): 
Open ports on 192.168.1.1: 22, 80, 443


2. Packet Sniffer
The Packet Sniffer captures network packets on a specified network interface.

Usage:
    Select option 2 from the main menu.
    The tool will automatically start capturing packets on the default network interface (e.g., eth0 on Linux systems).
    Press Ctrl+C to stop the sniffer.

Example:
Packet: IP 192.168.1.1 -> 192.168.1.2 TCP 80 -> 1025


3. SHA1 Password Cracker
The SHA1 Cracker attempts to find the plaintext password corresponding to a given SHA1 hash using a dictionary attack.

Usage:
    Select option 3 from the main menu.
    Input the SHA1 hash you wish to crack.
    The tool will iterate through a list of common passwords (from passwords.txt) and compare their SHA1 hashes to the given one.
    If a match is found, the corresponding plaintext password will be displayed.
    Example:
    Enter SHA1 to crack: 5baa61e4c9b93f3f0682250b6cf8331b7ee68fd8
    Password found: password


4. Password Generator
The Password Generator creates strong, random passwords with customizable options.

Usage:
    Select option 4 from the main menu.
    Specify the desired length of the password.
    Choose whether to include special characters, numbers, and uppercase letters.
    The tool will generate and display the password.


Troubleshooting:

    Module Not Found Error: Ensure that all necessary Python modules are installed using pip. 
    Example modules include scapy, hashlib, and pynput.
    Permission Issues: Running the packet sniffer may require administrative privileges. 
    Run the script as sudo or as an administrator on Windows.
    Invalid Input: Always double-check the format of your input
    , especially for IP addresses, port ranges, and SHA1 hashes.


Additional Resources
For further information, you can refer to:

    Python Documentation: https://docs.python.org/3/
    Scapy Documentation: https://scapy.readthedocs.io/
    Hashlib Documentation: https://docs.python.org/3/library/hashlib.html


My links:
https://www.youtube.com/@duawp
https://github.com/yqr5
https://x.com/FrankZane95   